# .V20 standard ver. 1
The `.v20 version 1` files are broken up into 2 parts: a Header and a Body. 
  
The Header defines critical information about the ROM (e.g. what area of memory the program needs to be loaded into), while the Body defines the raw data contained within the ROM. 
  
### Header (`64 bytes`)
The header is made up of the following ordered components (descriptions of various components are tracked bellow):

|component     |size       |
|--------------|-----------|
|signature     |`7 bytes`  |
|version #     |`1 byte`   |
|ROM name      |`32 bytes` |
|Auto-Exec     |`10 bytes` |
|Memory map    |`1 byte`   |
|Option flags  |`1 byte`   |
|Reserved space|`12 bytes` |
|              |           |
|Total Size:   |`64 bytes` |

#### Signature (`7 bytes`)
Our headerblock begins with a `7 byte` file signature to help internally validate the ROM file format. This signature is ASCII-encoded plaintest (`VIC-20v`)

#### Version Number (`1 byte`)
The version number is `1 byte` long, and is an unsigned byte. This is version 1, so accordingly the value is set to `0x01`; we can use this byte to identify file structure.

#### ROM Name (`32 bytes`)
The ROM Name is `32 bytes` long, ASCII-encoded byte string that holds the name of the ROM. This could be useful for identifying cartridges even without the correct file name; remaining white space is zeroed.

E.g. "Adventure #2: Pirate Cove" would be encoded as:
```
41 64 76 65 6e 74 75 72
65 20 23 32 3a 20 50 69
72 61 74 65 20 43 6f 76
65 0a 00 00 00 00 00 00
```

#### Auto-Exec (`10 bytes`)
`10 bytes` are allocated for an auto-exec command (ASCII encoded). The first `9 bytes` are dedicated to the command while the last `1 byte` is dedicated to the enter key (`0x0A`). The command itself is tailed by the end-line character, and any remaining space is zeroed. This functionality would be useful for games like Scott Adam's adventure games. Commands like `SYS 32592` would be encoded as:

```
53 59 53 20 33 32 35 39
32 0A
```


WIP

 
Following this, `1 byte` is allocated to define which `4kb` blocks are present in the body.
  
It is important to note that `8kb` ROMs are typically loaded into locations `$2000`,`$4000`,`$6000`, and `$A000` (location `$B000` can only hold a `4kb` ROM). That being said, `4kb` ROM chips can be loaded at any of the given addresses. Accordingly, this format treats contiguous `8kb` ROMs as two `4kb` ROMs; increasing our addressable regions to `$3000`, `$5000`, and `$7000`.
With 8 possible regions to fill, we can encode the active banks using a single `byte`. 

This byte has the following bitwise flags:

| bit | memory address |
|-----|----------------|
| `0` | `$2000`        |
| `1` | `$3000`        |
| `2` | `$4000`        |
| `3` | `$5000`        |
| `4` | `$6000`        |
| `5` | `$7000`        |
| `6` | `$A000`        |
| `7` | `$B000`        |

These flags correspond to sequential `4kb` blocks in the body. E.g. "Pirate's Cove" takes up `16kb` and is loaded in at address `$4000`, while spanning `$4000-$7FFF`. The bank representation would then be,
`00111100` or more generally `3C`.

The header section contains one more `byte` which is used to encode various properties of the ROM:

| bit | function               |
|-----|------------------------|
| `0` | `NTSC(0)/PAL(1) sync`    |
| `1` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |
| `2` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |
| `3` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |
| `4` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |
| `5` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |
| `6` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |
| `7` | `HELD FOR FUTURE USE` |

If our example copy of "Pirate Cove" is exclusively the PAL revision, and relies on very specific timings, then its settings byte would be encoded as `01`.

In review, the Header block is `64 bytes` long, and is made up of:

| component | size |
|-----------|------|
| formatting defintion | `(8 bytes)` |
| ROM's title | `(32 bytes)` |
| auto-exec | `(22 bytes)` |
| memory map | `(1 byte)`  |
| option flags | `(1 byte)` |

Under this schema our hypothetical copy of "Adventure #2: Pirate Cove" would have a header block like so:
```
56 49 43 2d 32 30 76 01
41 64 76 65 6e 74 75 72
65 20 23 32 3a 20 50 69
72 61 74 65 20 43 6f 76
65 0a 00 00 00 00 00 00
53 59 53 20 33 32 35 39
32 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
00 00 00 00 00 00 3C 01
```

### Body (`4kb - 32kb`)
The body is made up of sequential `4kb` blocks, where blocks are loaded to  `$2000`, `$3000`, `$4000`, `$5000`, `$6000`, `$7000`, `$A000`, and `$B000`. Here, blocks are arranged from lowest destination address to highest, and the header defines which blocks are present in a given ROM.
